README.md, before:

# SubTUI

**SubTUI** is a lightweight TUI music player for Subsonic-compatible servers (Navidrome, Gonic, Airsonic, etc.) built with Go and the Bubble Tea framework. It uses `mpv` as the underlying audio engine supporting multiple audio formats. It supports scrobbeling ensuring your play counts are updated on your server and on any external services configured like Last.FM or ListenBrainz

![Main View](./screenshots/main_view.png)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

You must have **mpv** installed and available in your system path.

* **Ubuntu/Debian:** `sudo apt install mpv`
* **Arch:** `sudo pacman -S mpv`
* **macOS:** `brew install mpv`

### From Releases

You can download pre-compiled binaries for Linux and macOS directly from the [Releases](https://github.com/MattiaPun/SubTUI/releases) page. Simply download the archive for your architecture, extract it, and run the binary.

### From Source

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/MattiaPun/SubTUI.git
cd SubTUI

# Build
go build .

# Run
./subtui
```

## Keybinds
### Global Navigation
| Key             	| Action                                                 	|
|-----------------	|--------------------------------------------------------	|
| `Tab`           	| Cycle focus forward (Search → Sidebar → Main → Footer) 	|
| `Shift` + `Tab` 	| Cycle focus backward                                   	|
| `/`             	| Focus the Search bar                                   	|
| `q`             	| Quit application (except during Login)                 	|
| `Ctrl` + `c`    	| Quit application                                       	|

### Library & Playlists
| Key          	| Action                      	|
|--------------	|-----------------------------	|
| `j` / `Down` 	| Move selection down         	|
| `k` / `Up`   	| Move selection up           	|
| `Enter`      	| Play selection / Open Album 	|

### Media Controls
| Key          	| Action                                   	|
|--------------	|------------------------------------------	|
| `j` / `Down` 	| Move selection down                      	|
| `k` / `Up`   	| Move selection up                        	|
| `Enter`      	| Play selection / Open Album              	|
| `S`          	| Shuffle Queue (Keeps current song first) 	|
| `L`          	| Toggle Loop (None → All → One)           	|
| `.`          	| Forward 10 seconds                       	|
| `,`          	| Rewind 10 seconds                        	|

### Starred (liked) songs 
| Key 	| Action             	|
|-----	|--------------------	|
| `f` 	| Toggle star        	|
| `F` 	| Open starred Songs 	|

### Queue Management
| Key 	| Action                   	|
|-----	|--------------------------	|
| `N` 	| Play song next           	|
| `a` 	| Add song to queue        	|
| `d` 	| Remove song to queue     	|
| `D` 	| Clear queue              	|
| `K` 	| Move song up (Reorder)   	|
| `J` 	| Move song down (Reorder) 	|


##  Configuration

On the first launch, SubTUI will ask for your server credentials:

1. **Server URL:** (e.g., `http(s)://music.example.com`)
2. **Username**
3. **Password**

**Security Note**: Your credentials are stored in plaintext in `~/.config/subtui/config.yaml`.

##  Screenshots

![Login](./screenshots/login.png)
![Queue](./screenshots/queue_view.png)



## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

Commit message:

Added SubTUI to the AUR

README.md, after:

# SubTUI

**SubTUI** is a lightweight TUI music player for Subsonic-compatible servers (Navidrome, Gonic, Airsonic, etc.) built with Go and the Bubble Tea framework. It uses `mpv` as the underlying audio engine supporting multiple audio formats. It supports scrobbeling ensuring your play counts are updated on your server and on any external services configured like Last.FM or ListenBrainz

![Main View](./screenshots/main_view.png)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

You must have **mpv** installed and available in your system path.

* **Ubuntu/Debian:** `sudo apt install mpv`
* **Arch:** `sudo pacman -S mpv`
* **macOS:** `brew install mpv`

### From Releases

You can download pre-compiled binaries for Linux and macOS directly from the [Releases](https://github.com/MattiaPun/SubTUI/releases) page. Simply download the archive for your architecture, extract it, and run the binary.

### Arch Linux (AUR)

You can install SubTUI directly from the AUR: ``yay -S subtui-git``


### From Source

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/MattiaPun/SubTUI.git
cd SubTUI

# Build
go build .

# Run
./subtui
```

## Keybinds
### Global Navigation
| Key             	| Action                                                 	|
|-----------------	|--------------------------------------------------------	|
| `Tab`           	| Cycle focus forward (Search → Sidebar → Main → Footer) 	|
| `Shift` + `Tab` 	| Cycle focus backward                                   	|
| `/`             	| Focus the Search bar                                   	|
| `q`             	| Quit application (except during Login)                 	|
| `Ctrl` + `c`    	| Quit application                                       	|

### Library & Playlists
| Key          	| Action                      	|
|--------------	|-----------------------------	|
| `j` / `Down` 	| Move selection down         	|
| `k` / `Up`   	| Move selection up           	|
| `Enter`      	| Play selection / Open Album 	|

### Media Controls
| Key          	| Action                                   	|
|--------------	|------------------------------------------	|
| `j` / `Down` 	| Move selection down                      	|
| `k` / `Up`   	| Move selection up                        	|
| `Enter`      	| Play selection / Open Album              	|
| `S`          	| Shuffle Queue (Keeps current song first) 	|
| `L`          	| Toggle Loop (None → All → One)           	|
| `.`          	| Forward 10 seconds                       	|
| `,`          	| Rewind 10 seconds                        	|

### Starred (liked) songs 
| Key 	| Action             	|
|-----	|--------------------	|
| `f` 	| Toggle star        	|
| `F` 	| Open starred Songs 	|

### Queue Management
| Key 	| Action                   	|
|-----	|--------------------------	|
| `N` 	| Play song next           	|
| `a` 	| Add song to queue        	|
| `d` 	| Remove song to queue     	|
| `D` 	| Clear queue              	|
| `K` 	| Move song up (Reorder)   	|
| `J` 	| Move song down (Reorder) 	|


##  Configuration

On the first launch, SubTUI will ask for your server credentials:

1. **Server URL:** (e.g., `http(s)://music.example.com`)
2. **Username**
3. **Password**

**Security Note**: Your credentials are stored in plaintext in `~/.config/subtui/config.yaml`.

##  Screenshots

![Login](./screenshots/login.png)
![Queue](./screenshots/queue_view.png)



## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.
